_A Pervert's Guide to Kitchen Nightmares_

Kitchen Nightmares is a show that is fascinating to me. Not coincidentally, it is a largely unrecognized masterwork of Liberal Propaganda. One of the core patterns that re-appears, in the show, again and again, is that the workers employed by the, the Nightmare Kitchen, as it were, are fully aware of the situations that are leading to the demise of the institution: substandard-quality food, neuroses of the owners, failures of kitchen infrastructure, and so on and so on. Gordon Ramsay, our Knight, as it were, constantly uses this to his advantage. The vast bulk, or at least the majority of, the ideas he presents, to the owners, are repackaged from the restaurant staff, a fact which is presented fairly honestly. Ramsay serves as an imagined ideal of the Liberal state, an irresistible and all-knowing force which resolves the conflicts inherent to Capitalism through its just application of power over the Owners.

What is truly interesting is that despite the clear moral roles of the owners and the laborers, i.e., we have the wise workers and the delusional bosses, Kitchen Nightmares is fundamentally an experience for the Owners of the restaurant. Ramsay serves a dual role here, as both the romantic ideal of the Successful Restaurateur, and as the advocate for the workers. Sadly, his primary mode of operation is not to enable the workers to take control of their own situation, despite his apparent sympathies. In fact, he often remarks in the closing statement that the future success or failure of the de-nightmared kitchen rests entirely on the Proprietor's willingness to follow his (in truth, the workers') plan.

Of course, this would not be a truly Slavojan discussion if we did not discuss ideology. The conceit of a given episode tends to center around a particular delusion or fantasy that the Proprietor of the kitchen has. Instead of overthrowing the structural injustice that allows the owners to breed their fantasy unchecked, Ramsay instead uses his prestige as a restaurateur to, as publicly and forcefully as possible, shatter this delusion. In doing so, he reminds the owner of their normative role, not as master of the kitchen, but as steward. The Kitchen is not owned for the owner's amusement and fulfillment, like a child's toy, but rather has its own desires that the owner must recognize and submit himself to in order to successfully nurture his capital. In a strange way, Ramsay reminds the owner of their duty to the market, to the state, to their own Capital, and so on and so on. Exactly like the Liberal state, he uses his influence to bail-out the failing institution, forces the Owner to ritually submit to his power, and then leaves. The failure of the institution was a product of faulty, non-standard ideology, and having corrected the deviant ideology, the rest will, as they say, follow. He is, at this point, either satisfied that the owner has been successfully reminded of their place in the ideological superstructure, or often expresses doubts. However, these doubts are never sufficient to actually remove the owner from their position, or place any structural checks on their whims. Through Ramsay's harsh lullaby, the Nightmare has been replaced by placid dreams, but all are still in bed with their eyes firmly closed.
